Hello and welcome to this art Tauriel and welcome to part nine dimensional reduction.
So we are starting this part with our first technique of dimensionality reduction which is PCA principal
component analysis.
And so you know in dimensionality reduction there are two techniques feature selection and feature extraction.
We did feature selection in Part 2 when we implemented the backward elimination model to select the
most relevant features of our matrix of features that is the features that explain the most.
The dependent variable and now we are starting this new technique of dimensionality reduction which
is feature extraction and PCA principal component analysis is one feature extraction technique.
So as a reminder let's say your matrix of features has an independent variables Well what PCA will do
is that it will extract a smaller number of your independent variables.
But there are going to be new independent variables like new dimensions and these new independent variables
extracted are going to be some new independent variables that explain the most the variance of your
data set.
And that is regardless of your dependent variable.
And that makes speciate an unsupervised mode in the sense that we don't consider the dependent variable
in the model.
So that's BCA.
And remember in Part 2 in part 3 we worked with one or two independent variables.
Well that was for two specific purposes.
The first purpose is that we needed a graphic visualization of our results.
And since each independent variable corresponded to one dimension in the plot well we could visualize
our result with at most two independent variables.
And the second reason is that thanks to this PCA dimensionality reduction technique well even if we
have a lot of independent variables at the beginning.
Well we can end up with much less independent variables but that's going to be relevant independent
variables because these independent variables will explain the most the variance of your data.
And therefore since we can reduce this number of independent variables Well we can end up with two or
three independent variables and therefore visualize the results as we did in part 3.
And this is exactly what we're going to do in this tutorial in the following tutorials of the section
and the following sections when we cover other dimensionality reduction techniques like LDA and also
Colombe say well we will have many features at the beginning and therefore it will be impossible to
visualize the results.
But then when we apply PCa or LDK we will reduce the number of features down to two and therefore we'll
be able to visualize the results.
So let's start right now and let's start by setting the right folder as working directory.
So as you know we go to our machine.
It is a folder then part nine dimensional reduction.
And here we are in the first section of this part nine principal components analysis.
That's our first technique.
Let's click on it and that's the folder we want to set as a working directory make sure that you have
the one that says you file.
And if that's the case you're ready to click on this more button here to set this folder as working
directory perfect.
And now we're going to open another file that we made in part 3 classification which is our logistic
regression.
Our file because what we're going to do is take this logistic regression code then we are going to change
the name of the data set because we will be working on a new data set which will be the wind that says
you file and we will apply PCA on this data set.
And of course I will explain quickly the business problem behind it.
So I'm going to take everything from here down to the bottom.
Here we go.
Copy and I'm going to paste that in my PCa our file this way.
So let's go up and let's change the name of the data set.
This is not social network at Sears V.
This is now one that says that's perfect.
So no what we're going to do is first import the data set and then apply data processing maybe we will
need to change some things like the indexes here but this will be very quick.
So first let's import the data sets.
So I'm going to select this line and execute it we go the data set is one important.
Here it is.
And now let's expand the business problem behind it.
Okay so first of all this is a very famous data set well known in the machine or in literature and that
you can find on the UCI machine or any repository as you can see here and you can find this page at
this link.
So basically first what are the independent variables and what is the dependent variable.
Well the independent variables are all the variables from this one alcohol up to this one.
And this last variable customer segment is the dependent variable.
So in the original data set this the parent variable is not called customer segment this is actually
the origin of the wine.
But let's imagine that we as data scientist are working for a wine business owner.
And this one business owner gathered all these informations in this data set.
And so first what this business owner did is that it gathered all the information of these independent
variables here that are chemical's informations of several wines.
And this business owner applied some clustering technique to find some segments of customers that like
specific wine depending on the information of the wine and by applying these clustering techniques.
This business owner identified three segments of customers.
That's the first one here.
Then we have the second one.
And eventually the third one so based on these informations and thanks to its clustering techniques.
Well this one business owner managed to find some segments of customers each segment having a specific
preference for a specific wine.
So basically this business only found three types of wines.
Each type of one corresponding to one segment of customers and therefore three segments of customers.
And why does it create added value for its business.
Well that's because now what this business owner can do is take all these informations of the wines
as well as the information about the customer segments and make a classification model like logistic
regression in which the independent variables are all these variables and that have been invaluable
in the customer segment and therefore for each new wine it can predict to which customer segment it
should recommend this one.
So that adds a lot of value for this business owner.
But then if this business owner wants to have a clear visual look at the prediction regions and the
prediction boundary of the classification model that we're going to build to be able to see if the predictions
are in the right spot of the customer segments.
Well it cannot be done with all these independent variables because of course we cannot represent these
many independent variables in one plot that's impossible.
So what we need to do is apply some dimensionality reduction techniques to extract two independent variables
that explain the most the variance and then we'll be able to see the prediction regions and the prediction
boundary and therefore will clearly be able to see where the customer segments are and where are these
predictions of the customer segments are.
According to the extracted features of all the informations of our independent variables and remember
these extracted features are called the principal components.
All right so now that we understand the challenge and the business problem let's apply PCA to see how
we can reduce the dimensionality of this dataset because indeed it contains 13 dimensions because it
contains 13 independent variables and we'll see how we can use PCA to reduce the number of independent
variables down to two independent variables.
But be careful.
It's important to understand that the new two independent variables that we'll have in the end are going
to be new ones as opposed to feature selection where you know we end up with two independent variables
that are among these original 13 independent variables here with PCa will get you extractors one and
that's the important distinction to make between feature selection and feature extraction.
All right so before we apply pca as usual we need to preprocess the data and this is actually going
to be very quick because our template is ready we will just need to change just a few things.
So first dataset equals There is a 3:5 that's just to select the independent variables that matter for
our problem.
But here everything matters we just want to reduce the dimensionality of this data set.
So we will keep all our independent variables here and therefore we don't need this slide here.
So I will just remove it.
OK.
So first section and in the days that ready well executed.
Now let's move on to the next section.
So the next section is about splitting the data sets into the training set and the test set.
And here be careful we just need to change this name of the dependent variable because in the disaggregation
we're dealing with the social network at the file and the dependent variable was purchased.
But now for our new business problem the dependent variable is not called purchased.
It is called customer segment.
So we just need to replace purchase here by customer segment.
Here we go.
All right do we keep a split ratio of 75 percent.
Well let's rather take 80 percent.
But that's as you wanted just that 80 percent is a good split racial take.
So we will go with that.
And then here for training set and test that we don't need to change anything.
So we are ready to split our data set into the training set and the assets.
Let's do it.
I'm going to select all the section here and press command plus enter to execute.
Here we go.
The training set is now created as well as a test at great.
So ready to move on to the next section the next section is about feature scaling and for PCa it is
way better to apply future scaling you can actually apply it by playing with the parameters of the PCA
function that we're going to use afterwards.
But let's take this feature scanning part of our code template to put our features on the same scale.
So here we just need to change the indexes.
We actually need to specify indexes of the features we want to scale.
So basically the features we want to scale are all the features from alcohol to Proline.
And so what we can do is specify that we want to get all the variables except the last one customer
segment that has indexed 14.
So therefore here instead of putting indexes of the features we can replace it by minus 14 we can remove
that.
Let's copy this because we will do the same for the others.
So lets replace that here by minus 14 and minus 14 here as well and eventually minus 14.
All right.
Now the feed just getting part is ready.
So we are ready to select the section and press commander control enter to execute.
And now all our valuables are skilled as you can see we can clearly see that all our features are on
the same scale.
And of course the customer segments kept its labels 1 2 and 3.
And same for the test set lets make sure that.
All right.
Perfect.
So just getting done.
And actually the preprocessing phase is completed.
So we did that quite efficiently.
Thats good because now we're getting to the exciting part applying PCA to our data.
So actually we will do that right here.
You apply BCA right after the data processing phase.
And just before you fit you know disaggregation model to the training said because of course you want
to train your model on your new data sets with the new extracted features.
That is with the two new extracted features that will explain the most variants.
And after you trained your grassfire you're ready to predict the test results make the commission metrics.
Then you can also visualize the trends that results.
Remember the section is applied on a dataset that contains two features.
And so we will see what we get by extracting these two new features.
All right so to finish the story I'm just going to introduce this new section here that I'm going to
call applying PCA.
All right.
And then the next tutorial we're going to apply PCa and then eventually we will build our moral on our
new reduced days.
So I look forward to doing that in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy machine learning.